#summary A list of best known M-BSP algorithms from different application domains.

= The Multi-Bulk-Synchronous-Parallel Model =

  * Leslie G. Valiant. 2008. A Bridging Model for Multi-core Computing. In Proceedings of the 16th annual European symposium on Algorithms (ESA '08). [http://people.seas.harvard.edu/~valiant/bridging-2010.pdf paper]


= Sorting =

  * D. Merrill and A. Grimshaw, “High Performance and Scalable Radix Sorting: A case study of implementing dynamic parallelism for GPU computing,” Parallel Processing Letters, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 245-272, 2011. [http://back40computing.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/documents/PplGpuSortingPreprint.pdf paper]


= Dense Linear Algebra =

= Sparse Linear Algebra =

  * N. Bell and M. Garland. Implementing sparse matrix-vector multiplication on throughput-oriented processors. Proc. Supercomputing 2009, November 2009. [http://www.nvidia.com/object/nvidia_research_pub_013.html paper]

= Algebraic Multigrid =

= Graph Partitioning =

 CUDA cuts: Fast graph cuts on the GPU. V. Vineet, P.J. Narayanan. Centre for Visual Inf. Technol., Int. Inst. of Inf. Technology, Hyderabad. [http://cvit.iiit.ac.in/papers/rtGCuts_2008.pdf paper] 

= Graph Traversal =

  * Merrill, D., Garland, M., and Grimshaw, A. High Performance and Scalable GPU Graph Traversal. Technical Report CS2011-05, Department of Computer Science, University of Virginia. Aug. 2011. [https://sites.google.com/site/duanemerrill/BFS_TR.pdf?attredirects=0 paper]

= Optimization =
 * Hongbing Zhu,Yongmei Guo,Jianguo Wu,Jinguang Gu,and Kei Eguchi. 2011. Paralleling Euclidean Particle Swarm Optimization in CUDA. In Proceedings of the 2011 4th International Conference on Intelligent Networks and Intelligent Systems (ICINIS '11). IEEE Computer Society,Washington,DC,USA. 

= Graph Coloring =

  * A.V. Pascal Grosset, Peihong Zhu, Shusen Liu, Suresh Venkatasubramanian, Mary Hall. Evaluating Graph Coloring on GPUs. PPoPP'11. [http://www.cs.utah.edu/~suresh/papers/ppopp/ppopp.pdf paper]

= Relational Algebra =

  * Gregory Diamos, Haicheng Wu, Ashwin Lele, Jin Wang, and Sudhakar Yalamanchili. Relational Algorithms for Multi-Bulk-Synchronous Processors. Tech Report. [http://www.gdiamos.net/papers/relational-algorithms.pdf paper]

= Fourier Transform =
  * Yuri Dotsenko, Sara S. Baghsorkhi, Brandon Lloyd, and Naga K. Govindaraju. 2011. Auto-tuning of fast fourier transform on graphics processors. In Proceedings of the 16th ACM symposium on Principles and practice of parallel programming (PPoPP '11). [http://impact.crhc.illinois.edu/ftp/conference/sara2011.pdf paper]